## Letters from a Stoic- I can’t help but like Seneca, even when I don’t want to.

Discourses of Epictetus- Epictetus’ exhortations to essentially man up (representative quote “why are you complaining about a runny nose stupid. Did god not give you hands with which to wipe it?”) could be easily dismissed as coming from a place of privilege. To some extent this is true, Epictetus’ life was not wholly devoid of luck or privilege. But it pales in comparison to the privilege of just about every person living in modern Western society. Epictetus was born a slave, and was crippled early in life by either the cruelty or neglect of his Master. Though I am all for trying to see the argument and not the arguer, Epictetus is probably the most compelling stoic because he truly lived a life of difficulty and impoverishment 

Play it as it Lays- One of the most stifling books I have ever read. The isolation, the self-destruction, the complete lack of support from men or women. Play it as it Lays illustrates how difficult and painful it would have been to be a woman in the 60s. It also shows us how circumscribed our own freedom is. In domestic life, Maria is anything but free; she is not even able to retain the right to choose (in this case to choose to have her baby). The only way she can escape is by descending into madness, but the erratic behavior that allows her to escape the cages of her domestic life land her in the cages of her asylum.
This is also too simplistic of a reading. Maria doesn’t really want  freedom; Maria doesn’t want anything at all (except for Kate, but she can’t have Kate. And is Kate even enough?). She has spiralled into a desperate state and she doesn’t even know what to want. She only knows what she doesn’t want, and most of her lunges towards freedom are just escapes from negative stimuli. 
I think Maria is all of us. Desperately oscillating in little (or big) swings from one thing to the next, never knowing anything, the walls closing in on all sides. 
Maria says she has never made a decision towards the end of the book. Have you?
